The conditions of existence of uniqueness of the solution of differential game with
quadratic function of a prize are established.

In this paper we constructed the Kuranisi family for a trivial holomorphic vector
bundle of rank n over a complex m-dimansional torus.

Using the commutator of a linear differential operator, its eigenoperators and
eigenvalues, we study special functions satisfying generalized conditions of the Cauchy-
Riemann type.

The notion of the structure of a nonholonomic Kenmotsu manifold is introduced.
The distribution of a nonholonomic Kenmotsu manifold is not integrable, unlike the
Kenmotsu manifold. An almost contact metric structure is defined on the distribution of a
K-contact metric manifold. This structure is called in the paper an extended almost contact
metric structure. It is proved that the extended structure is the structure of a nonholonomic
Kenmotsu manifold if and only if a Sasakian manifold with a distribution of zero
curvature is chosen as the initial manifold.

It is proved that if M is a K-contact metric manifold, then the metric skewsymmetric
N-connection is flat if and only if it is a Sasaki manifold with zero Schouten
curvature tensor.

The problem of existence of a cyclic basis for a given square matrix is considered.
The existence of such basis is equivalent to the fact that the geometric multiplicity
of each eigenvalue of the given matrix was equal to one. The formula for calculating the
value of the multiple of the Vandermond determinant is found. The connection between
the cyclic basis and the multiple of the Vandermond determinant is established.

For Bernoulli equations with periodic coefficients, phase portraits on the compactification
of a cylindrical phase space are considered. We describe structurally stable
equations – the equations whose topological structure of phase portraits does not change
with small perturbations of the equation.In the set of structurally unstable equations, an
open everywhere dense subset is distinguished. This set is a submanifold of codimension
one in the Banach space of the equations under consideration. It consist of first order
structurally unstable equations — equations whose topological structure of phase portraits
does not change under small perturbations in the set of all structurally unstable
equations.

The article deals with methodological aspects of preparation and verification of
Olympiad problems in mathematics. The analysis of the requirements of the task IV
International Student Mathematics Olympiad (II stage of all-Russian student Olympiad)
which was held on the basis of RSATU named after P. A. Soloviev in December 2018.

It is proposed to use post-final knowledge control to adjust work programs.

We analyze the errors made by students-economists during testing in mathematical
disciplines. Suggestions for correcting them are given.

The application of vector algebra inequalities for solving the olympiad problems
of finding the global maximum and minimum of functions of several variables are given.

Some properties of a square matrix of units are presented, and several olympiad
problems are solved that are connected with these properties. This material can be used
in the work of the student mathematical olympiad lesson.

We give an approach to determining the driving force of the drying process in the
study of the discipline "Processes and apparatus of chemical technology." The methods
of determining the driving force and the average driving force are considered. The factors
influencing the magnitude of the driving force are noted. The procedure for determining
the actual driving force of the drying process is given.

The paper analyzes existing mathematical dependencies, which allow calculating
the time of the first drying period. We propose a method of determining a time of a first
drying period.

The article discusses the feasibility of using the discrete mathematics methods in
the study of probability theory sections in a technical University. Specific examples of set
theory elements application in solving problems are given.

The article gives the information on the interregional student mathematical
Olympiads, held on the basis of Yaroslavl State TechnicalUniversity in 2019, and analyzes
its results.

This article presents an overview of a mathematical olympiad for first-year students
of the pedagogical university. It provides analysis of mistakes and level of preparation
to solve non-standard tasks by first-year students of institute of physicomathematical,
informatical and economic education.

The article presents the tasks of the 2019 interregional student mathematical
Olympiad held in Yaroslavl and their solutions.

Modern financial theory identifies the value of money over time, the determination
of the real value of assets and risk management as fundamental research issues. The
article considers the application of mathematical models in variable calculations of profitability,
cost and riskiness of financial assets.

The article describes the modeling of dependencies that describe the impact on the
number of scientists in Russia of factors such as: the cost of science from the federal budget
in millions of dollars, the average price of typical housing per square meter in dollars, the
population of Russia, the number of healthcare institutions, the number of universities, the number of university graduates in thousands, the cost of living in dollars, the dollar exchange
rate. Factor data are presented in a range of values. Based on the normalized data,
models for changing the number of scientists were constructed: a linear multifactor model,
a model in the state space, autoregressive models of the first, second and third order, trend.
For a linear multifactor model, a study of correlation factors was carried out. Based on the
approximation of factors and post-forecast, a model is selected. It is shown that the model
in the state space describes the object better. A forecast is made for the change in the number
of scientists while maintaining tendencies. It is shown that if nothing is done, the number
of scientists will decrease. The possibility of a decision maker to influence the negative
impact of uncontrollable factors on the system has been investigated.

The article deals with a mathematical model describing the process of electrons
flow distribution reflected from the surface of the molten material and falling on the collectors
of electrons located in the sensing element of the electron beam position sensor.
The model takes into account the effect of inelastic reflection of electrons arising in highdensity
electron beams.

The article deals with the impact of various economic and social factors on the
migrations attractiveness of the Ryazan region. The study identified the indicators that
have the greatest impact on the level of migration. Recommendations are given to increase
the attractiveness of the region.

We consider the first stage of the parachutist trajectory since he leaves the aircraft.
The parachutist is a heavy load at this stage. On the basis of real data the mathematical
model is determined. It describes the trajectory of the parachutist, in particular
its free fall.

A Markov chain is proposed for modeling random particle transport with memory
effects. The modes of transport arising at various ratios of the model parameters determining
the probabilistic characteristics of particles sporadic displacements and stops
are studied.

The article considers the technology of cold recycling and the dependence of the
strength of the mixture on its composition.

In this article, we have built an econometric model of the dependence of the
share of the labor force on the total area of residential premises, falling on average per
inhabitant, the average monthly nominal accrued wages of employees of organizations
and the share of graduates of state and municipal day educational institutions in the total
population. The research method is the analysis of panel data. The result of the study is
to identify regional differences, the presence of hidden systemic or random effects.

Daily water levels characteristics of the Pregel river, as a random process, have
been identified. The results of observations of the last 17 years have been used. Pair correlation
coefficients between realizations of different years were calculated. The type of
autocorrelation function strongly depends on the start time of the observation. The autocorrelation
function averaged by the observation start date was found.

The antenna based on a liquid cylindrical jet freely flowing down from a smooth
hole was simulated. The surface shape of a cylindrical liquid jet was analytically asymptotically
obtained. Antenna parameters were numerically modeled. The parameters of
antennas constructed taking into account terms of the first and second smallness orders
of the liquid jet's free surface amplitude wave perturbation that is part of the antenna
element are compared.

A software package prototype for modelling chemical reactions in complex molecular
systems through the combined approach which optimizes calculations by choice
of appropriate numerical method for each spatial scale was developed.

A model of the periodic process of agglomeration and grinding is considered.
Simulation of the process is represented as a change in the characteristics of an ensemble
of particles capable of being separated and agglomerated in each transition between
the states of the system. The results of simulation modeling of ideal agglomeration as an
implementation of a random process are presented.

Function interception types are given. Fundamental function interception methods
of x86-based Windows applications are provided with examples.

The applicability of fuzzy logic to assess the creative abilities of students, taking
into account the ability to formulate the basic provisions of scientific research, to solve
and invent problems in the field of theory of inventive problem solving is substantiated.
Software implemented, using the mathematical package MatLab, the mechanism of assessing
the creative abilities of students.

A greenhouse microclimate control system with a data archiving function is
considered. Adjustable parameters: temperature and humidity, soil temperature and
humidity, carbon dioxide concentration, light spectrum, daylight hours

The article considers popular packages for energy modeling based on the EnergyPlus
system and tools for optimizing energy consumption and parametric analysis of
design options. A Python application has been developed that allows you to use all the
features of the EnergyPlus system and provides integration with energy optimization and
parametric analysis programs. Using the Python language opens up wide possibilities
for supplementing the program with various tools for performing mathematical calculations
and visualization, optimizing and analyzing data, and interacting with other modeling
systems and applications.

The problems of motion of a color pixel in RGB-space to provide the required by
algorithms of brightness-contrast transformations of pixel brightness changes are investigated.
The trajectories of such motion are determined taking into account the possibility
of the presence of hidden artifacts in the image. A new algorithm of brightnesscontrast
transformations is proposed, the algorithm is designed to enhance the distinguishability
of details of color images, based on increasing the distance on the brightness
scale between the most common values in the image. Researches of results of application
of the offered methods are carried out.

This paper contains the description of homogeneous non-split supermanifolds of
dimension 1|4 over complex projective plane.

A multidimensional isospectral Schrödinger equation and a Riccati type equation
are obtained by the barisynthesis method from a second-order barilinear partial differential
equation. For all equations, we solve the Cauchy problem with initial data on
the hypeplane.

The sections of distributions of sub-Riemannian manifolds are studied. It is
proved that the image of a section is a geodesic submanifold of the distribution if the section
is covariantly constant and the Lie derivative of the metric tensor is zero.

The negative answer is given to the question of existence for two different endomorphisms
of a zero curvature distribution of a Sasaki manifold giving rise the Riemannian
spaces belonging to the same geodesic class.

A plane model for 4-dimensional projective space is constructed by means of an
algebraic variety of secant lines for three general 2-dimensional planes in P4.

In the two-layer liquid system velocity of the Stokes drift initiated by the Stokes
wave packet is computed. There is surface electric charge on the interface and the media
are involved in relative movement.

We describe bifurcations of codimension one in the space of vector fields on the
unit disc, invariant under the rotation group.

The Solow`s model with a seasonal economic structure has been studied.
The existence of a stable oscillatory mode of changing funds is established.

The article presents the tasks of the IV Interregional Student Mathematical
Olympiad (II stage of the All-Russian Student Olympiad). Solutions and statistics are
given.

It is examined the features of studying of the topic: hamming codes. It is indicated
that in order to master this topic, students should know the basics of combinatorics,
mathematical logic and the binary number system.

The article deals with some methodological techniques to improve the objectivity
and quality of training of students of technical University with a significant saving of
training time.

The content of olympiad lesson for the first year students on the topic limit of
sequence, is presented.

The conclusion of the main equation of the centrifugal pump-the equation of
L. Euler on the basis of the equation of D. Bernoulli is presented.

Calculated formulas for determining the coefficient of hydraulic friction used by
students in the calculations of pipelines and hydraulic devices are presented and analyzed.

We provide information about the international and all-Russian student mathematical
Olympiads held on the basis of Yaroslavl State Technical University in 2018, the
tasks of the Olympiads and examples of their solutions.

The article is devoted to the implementation of the competence approach in higher
education. The essence of pedagogical projecting in the formation of competencies in
the process of teaching mathematics is considered. The features of mathematical training
courses which need to be considered at formation of competences are allocated.

The urgency of distance educational technologies in mathematical education is
proved. The features of the development of online courses in higher mathematics and didactic
aspects of their application for the entrance tests to the universities of EMERCOM
of Russia.

In this paper we have identified statistically significant factors of the region’s
manufacturing potential, influence the gross regional product per capita, the amount of
input of fixed assets per capita.

The relevance of calculations of reinforced concrete structures for the effect of
repeated loads, taking into account unloading, is substantiated. The features of the computational
model of a built-up bar are presented when performing calculations taking into
account the loading mode. Recommendations on the evaluation of the bond stiffness
at the stage of unloading of a reinforced concrete element are given.

We consider the problem of linear programming for finding of an optimum ratio
between working hours of the teacher and the amount of its salary. The analysis of the
received results and the constructed model is made.

We obtained experimentally dependencies to determine the injection coefficient
of a liquid-gas injection apparatus.

The article deals with a mathematical model that describes the process of distr
bution of the flow of electrons reflected from the surface of the molten material and fal
ing on electronic collectors located in the sensing element of the electron beam position
sensor. The model takes into account the influence of inelastic electron reflection occu
ring in high-density electron beams.

We used a neural network the scientific substantiation of the graduate's compliance
with a certain type of military activity, on the basis of progress in the main categories
of disciplines. As an input function of the neural network used student performance
for each discipline. As an output function used a type of professional military activity,
which is suitable graduate.
The best model 3 MLP 56-14-4 was chosen on the basis of the analysis of the results
obtained from the models based on statistical characteristics, the number of errors,
predicted values of the output function, sensitivity, maximum values of performance and
control. The error of the experiment is in the range 0.21-0.26. The proposed scientific method
can be taken into account in the distribution of graduates to primary officer positions.

A system of kinetic equations is proposed for describing random particle transport
in a finite medium, taking into account memory effects. The modes of transport arising
under different conditions of particles motion and their staying in traps are studied.

In this article we investigated the influence of a number of economic factors on
the labor attractiveness of Russian regions. We chose the size of the workforce and the
need for workers, declared by employers, as indicators of labor attractiveness. We analyzed
the dynamics of changes in the number of factors affecting the labor attractiveness.

The distribution law of maximum annual water levels is constructed with the help
of probability theory regularities. The case when the probability density of the flow rate
and the unambiguous relationship between the maximum flow rate and the level in a certain
section of the river are known is considered. The obtained probability density makes
it possible to calculate the maximum annual levels of the Pregel river of a given security.

In this paper, we consider a mathematical model of a viscous liquid flow around
plate. The finite volume method was applied to calculate the unsteady flow of water. Calculations
were made in a freely distributed package OpenFOAM. The following solvers of the
OpenFOAM package were considered: icoFoam, pisoFoam, simpleFoam, pimpleFoam.
Examples of a numerical solution for various parameters of the problem are given.

In the technological process of road construction the most important is the operation
of compaction. Among the many road construction materials, the process of compaction
of asphalt concrete coatings is the most difficult to algorithmize due to a large
number of factors affecting it. This paper shows the methodological approaches to the
definition of sets of machines and modes of vibration impact on the compacted material
by each roller. It is proposed to optimize the process parameters based on the analysis of
the fourth coordinate.

We consider the stages of design and product development, taking into account
existing engineering methods, as well as the use of mathematical probability to calculate
the occurrence of a failure by part, node.

A model is proposed for estimating the volume of supply of one product on
a single target segment. It takes into account the uncertainty of the product offer
competitors.

In a simplified form, the technique of automated calculation of firmware for
processing complex internal surfaces in parts on multi-purpose machines based on mathematical
modeling and experimental studies of the stretching process is considered.
Examples of the calculation of firmware and calibration efforts of the fine holes.

The paper presents theoretical representations of the process of interaction of
cutting elements of construction and road machines with the material, presents the methodology
and results of penetration surveys of the interaction of conical dies with cement
concrete and bituminous concrete. The estimation of efficiency of teeth of machines
with different angles of sharpening is predicted.

The paper cjnsiders the problem of calculating the parameters of typical regulators
for technological processes with several input and output parameters. A method is
proposed to reduce the influence of channels on each other, as well as to reduce the impact
of random disturbances.

The paper examines the possibility of using a Jeff Tupper`s self-referential formula
as one of the steganography algorithms in order to hide important information.
Also, it provides provides an overview of the existing methods of steganography.

The paper considers the problem of the occurrence of a self-oscillation mode
with the simultaneous regulation of the same technological parameter by several control
systems, including different types (linear and nonlinear) of regulators. Two ways to solve
this problem are proposed, based on switching control loops when the output variable
approaches the specified value. Numerical experiments in the Simulink system of the
MATLAB package confirmed the efficiency of the proposed algorithms.

The technique of studying the adaptation of farm animals using the approach of
correlation adaptometry is considered. A brief theory of the problem is presented. Advantages
and shortcomings of application of such method in practice of veterinary and zootechnical
researches are given.

The results on the structure of the quasi-liquid water layer in the "frozen water –
clay mineral" system using the probe technique developed on the basis of the mössbauer
isotope 57Fe in two forms (Fe2+ and Fe3+) are presented. In the framework of fractal
geometry, the elastic parameters (shear modulus, Poisson's ratio, Gruneisen parameter)
were estimated at the surface ice and the transition "Menger's Sponge" 0 "Kantorov's
Dust" was established with a decrease in the layer thickness. The presented results will
be useful in solving the applied problem – the construction of the missing explanation of
the mechanism of "obtaining" natural nanotubes.

We investigate a normal periodic system of ordinary differential equations in a
neighborhood of infinity. The stability case, which is critical in the linear part, is considered.
The stability conditions of the zero solution via the parameter are obtained. The
properties of the monodromy operator are used.

The paper establishes conditions for the bary-conformality of a baryholomorphic
mapping. In particular, we give conditions for the conformality of a multidimensional
fractional-linear transformation.

On the distribution D and codistribution ∗	of a manifold M with a sub-
Riemannian structure of contact type extended almost contact metric
structures are defined. We study the obtained structures.

The notion of Wagner-Schouten tensor of sub-Riemannian manifold is introduced.
The extended B-metric structure is defined on distribution of sub-Riemannian manifold
with non-zero Wagner-Schouten tensor. The properties of obtained structure are
studied.

The instability like Calvin-Helmholtz connected with the movement of the external
environment concerning objects with various geometry is considered: planes, cylinder
and sphere.

We give a constructive method for constructing a rational normal variety of
n − p +1 order p dimension in p -dimensional projective space is indicated. The manifold
of one-dimensional bisectants of this variety is studied.

We consider an autonomous differential equation of the second order on a circle
depending on a small parameter and the corresponding dynamical system on the cylindrical
phase space. For zero value of the parameter, this system is assumed to be integrable
with a continuum of periodic trajectories that are not homotopic to zero. In the generic
case, the existence of coarse limit cycles for small values of the parameter is
proved.

An entropy-information component in engineering education of the chemical and
technological profile is considered. On the example of multicomponent rectification
process the system statement and the solution of tasks from synthesis of optimum structure
of system before her optimum decomposition and calculation of each subsystem
(column) separately are given. At the process description the principle of an entropy
maximum (Jaynes formalism) is used, and by optimization the cybernetic law of a necessary
variety (law Ashby) is used .

We consider the tasks of student mathematical olympiads related to the concept
of convex function.

It is examined the features of studying of the topic: the synthesis of encoders of
cyclic codes. We point out the need for a step-by-step consideration of the topic.

The paper examines a dependence of the activity of the collective on the emotional
background. The mathematical model of the optimal mode of social group activity is
constructed.

This article is devoted to the application of the "two policemen" theorem to finding
limits of numerical sequences in classes of a student's mathematical circle.

The following questions are discussed: forms of recording a differential equation,
the concept of a solution and methods of its assignment, the types of equations that are
subject to study.

The coefficient conditions for the solvability of the game of two zero-sum persons
are found, provided that the win function is quadratic and concave in both variables.

Basic concepts of the bimoment theory of bars of solid cross section of V. Z.
Vlasov are adapted to determine the relative deformations of concrete in bend reinforced
concrete elements with discrete cracks. To determine the deformations caused by the deformation
of the cross-section of the rod, a parabolic dependence was used.

A model is proposed in which the distribution of the time of trouble-free operation
of the system is considered as a stationary solution of the Fokker-Planck kinetic equation
for a random process occurring in the system. The distribution of the time of
trouble-free operation in the case when the kinetic equation contains fractional derivative
operators is found and investigated.

The article discusses influence of the crushed stone fraction size on the moisture
content during storage in the stack at the asphalt plant.

The article discusses the use of liquid anti-icing agents.

The paper analyzes the possibility of manufacturing on the basis of a fibroconcrit
mixture of roofing piece a material having increased strength characteristics and containing
polypropylene fiber. We made modeling and calculation of tiles in the software
compute complex SCADOffice.

In this paper we justified the use of binary choice models to assess the probability
of winning auctions and quotations held in medical institutions that use the medical
products of JSC "Elatomsky instrument plant". We developed various binary choice
models from two regressors: the initial value of the lot and the plant's product share in
the lot.

On the basis of generally accepted assumptions the features of static characteristics
of pneumatic throttle converter are analyzed.

We give a chart for rapid calculation of parameters for the throttle converter of the
"nozzle-flap" type.

The results of PC modeling of 2D grayscale images with geometrical deformations
and several classes’ recognition with the usage of Kalman invariant correlation filters
are given. In addition, data is providid for some other types of correlation filters.

An algorithm for choosing the preferred variant of an automated control system
is proposed and tested. Based on the proposed algorithm, applying the theory of the multi-
criteria utility function, the most preferable option is detected.

The paper presents an analysis of the dependence of the parameters of the Fokker-
Planck kinetic equation on the energy characteristics of the process of forming cavitation
spheres in the flowing part of the control valve.

The article considers the influence of the use of solid chemical anti-icing reagents
on the safety of highways. We give… results …of measuring… the coefficient… of adhesion.
The most common …reagents… are considered.

A technique of analysys the stress-strain state of a rubber membrane based on
SKI-3 rubber is considered when it is indented by a spherical indentor.

We consider the influence of friction materials on road safety in winter. The results
of experiments are presented.

An analysis of the stochastic relationship between the maximum annual levels
and water consumption of the Pregel River in the city of Gvardeysk was performed. It is
shown that in General it is necessary to take into account the random nature of both values.
In the considered case the correlation coefficient close to one allows to use the standard
calculation procedure of regression dependence parameters without taking into account
stochastic character of argument.

The article analyzes the statistical data of daily water levels of rain floods in the
Izhora river (the left tributary of the Neva river), presents a two-factor regression model
of the forecast of the rainwater layer.

In terms of the established legal lower limit of the cost of educational services,
the calculation of the profitability of educational programs, the determination of the
threshold of profitability of educational institutions, the possibility of providing economically
reasonable discounts.

The mathematical modeling of the second stage of the powdered rubber mixture
preparation process in a plow mixer with a milling cutter is considered. The model allows
determining the degree of filling of the mixture particles as a function of time.

The article discusses the work of the organization of wholesale and retail trade
with external suppliers. Using the process approach, a model of business processes of interaction
with suppliers, and identified the main problems, and recommended the use of
SRM systems. The description of the main modules of the SRM system, their capabilities
and advantages is also given.

The article gives a brief description of the Yaroslavl branch of the Moscow outsourcing
company to support the business of Internet-trading for the solution of web development,
fullfilment, call-center and logistics. The conducted brief analysis of the personnel
policy, considers the main problems of personnel management in companies, financed
and proposed measures to improve the personnel management system. The substantiation
of application of the corporate portal in the work of the organization is described
that will allow it to save time, automate a variety of operations, to simplify the
search of necessary information, establish the communication between employees, departments
and divisions, would enhance transparency in the company.

We consider a grayscale digital image contrast and total illuminance djustment
method by bringing the original luma histogram to normal distribution with specified
parameters.

The paper shows the formation of structure of the client part of the information
system on the basis of object-oriented approach in the form of charts of states and
classes.

We present the results of the conceptual model development, which is necessary
for the implementation of an automated information system for calculating, distributing
and accounting for the academic load of the department.

The paper considers various variants for practical implementation of model predictive
control methods. Most easily, these methods can be implemented using the
MATLAB package. MATLAB has a wide range of tools for working with MPC controllers.
An alternative is to use specialized libraries for universal programming languages.
The most convenient and promising programming language for this is the Python language.

The article deals with the problem of significant increase in the adhesive efficiency
of galvanic sludge treated in a jet mill, when it is used in asphalt mixtures together
with other mineral fillers. Especially improve such defining indicators of asphalt concrete
as strength, adhesion of bitumen to the mineral part, long-term water resistance.

We investigate the structure and energy of the formation of hydroperoxyl (HOO•)
and hydroxyl (HO•) radicals with hydroxide ion and hydroxonium ion present in the
aqueous phase during the oxidation of hydrocarbons in micelles. One of the reasons for
the decrease in the rate of oxidation of lipid models in micelles is established in
comparison with oxidation in a homogeneous hydrocarbon phase.

We present results of studies of productive and adaptive characteristics of imported
Holstein cattle breed in two generations in conditions of the Upper Volga region
of Russia.

The article considers the influence of traditional anti-icing reagents on lawn
grass, which is planted along the carriageway.

The technology of purification of waste copper-containing solutions providing a
return to the production of copper and environmental protection of the environment is
considered.

The process of destruction of magnetic microparticles under conditions in the
leaching regime of hydro-morphological soils is studied. Eight samples of different origin
were studied. There were samples of both technogenic origin and separate soil horizons.
Found two speed of the destruction of the magnetic susceptibility and magnetization:
the “fast” and “slow”.

Experimental results on the structure and properties of the quasi – liquid water
layer in the system "frozen water-clay mineral" are presented using the probe technique
developed on the basis of the mössbauer isotope 57Fe in two forms (Fe2+ and Fe3+). The
problem was solved with the help of the analysis of the temperature behavior messbauerovskoi
parameters of experimental spectra in the framework of the physical (quantum
and/or classical) nature of the anomalies and properties of water. The temperature
transformation of the mössbauer spectra of the system under study was qualitatively explained
by the models traditionally described as two types of phase transitions ("orderdisorder"
and "order-order"). If in the three – dimensional case, melting always occurs
by means of the first kind of transition, then in the two-dimensional case, the melting
scenario is established from a variety of options. According to this, the system melts by
means of two continuous transitions of Berezinsky – Kosterlitz – Taules with the presence
of an intermediate hexatic phase characterized by a quasi-initial order. It is found
that the first continuous transition is due to the ferroelectric phase transition, and the
cause of the second transition is quantum in nature and requires, apparently, additional
research. An attempt of quantitative evaluation of elastic parameters (shear modulus,
Poisson's ratio, Gruneisen parameter) at the surface of the ice. At the same time, its
structure was satisfactorily described in the framework of fractal geometry and with a
decrease in the layer thickness, the Menger Sponge 5 Kantor Dust transition was established.
The presented results will be useful in solving the problem of searching for liquid
water on Mars, since the diagnosis of the presence of CHS on the ice surface by the MS
method can be a characteristic feature of the presence of "fresh" water on the red planet.

In this paper the combined influence of vertical vibrations and surface electric
charge on the stability of a charged horizontal fluid layer based covered by dielectric
fluid is investigated.

We propose a bari-analogue of the projective space (projective geometry) and
give the applications of this analogue to solving of systems of nonlinear differential equations
of Riccati type (ordinary and partial).

We have shown the possibility of using systems of linear second order recurrence
equations with constant coefficients for solving quadratic Diophantine equations.

A fixed point theorem for nonexpansive mappings satisfying Frum-Ketkov condition
is proved.

The Banach contraction mapping principle is applied to prove the solvability of
Hammerstein integral equation.

Necessity of the comparative analysis is shown for soil-mineral systems of the
Earth and rocks usage of Mars for the first time on examples of results of concrete researches
at use Mossbauer spectroscopy. The offered technique is effective for the accounting
and studying of the processes occuring in multicomponent natural objects. The
way of dividing of magnetic particles on space and technogenic is put forward as a hypothesis.

Asymptotical analytical calculation for nonlinear oscillating spherical charged
drop was found. Multimode initial deformation including two serial modes is the translational
mode excites. The charge centre oscillates around the equilibrium position, so the
drop radiates electromagnetic waves. The location of the electromagnetic radiation power
depending on drop radius and drop charge was found for a separate drop and cloud.

A singular Hilbert integral equation of neutral type of the first kind in the Holder’s
space of 2pi -periodic functions is considered. Conditions of solvability and unique
solvability of the equation are found and the convergence of regularized solutions is
proved.

The comparison of Lagrange coordinates method and Euler one for liquid particle
path calculation are considered. Trajectories of the liquid particle are presented.
Here is shown that both methods are utilizable to calculate the average drift associated
with propagation of periodic wave along the surface.

The paper provides new sufficient conditions of linearization of smooth m ×l -
actions in a neighborhood of a fixed point.

The results of the study of magnetic spherules from different sources, the character
of the distribution of their sizes in various time intervals are cited. The influx spherical
magnetic particles on the Earth’s surface was determined.

The method of phase transitions calculation in the complex dividing systems including
elements with equilibrium output streams is considered. The method is based on
information approach of entropy maximum. Examples of calculation of multicomponent
mixes division systems at various problem definitions are given.

We present model that allows to evaluate assess the reliability of reinforced
concrete elements. The calculation algorithm is implemented layered approach.

The paper proposes a theoretically grounded method of calculation of the contrast
of the screen image taking into account all relevant factors, including the contrast
of the projector and conditions of the demonstration.

The results of PC modeling of 2D grayscale images with geometrical deformations
recognition are given. There were used several distortion invariant correlation filters:
MACE, GMACE, MINACE and DCCF.

The method of obtaining the kinetic equations to describe systems in which occurs
several related stochastic processes with arbitrary probability characteristics is
proposed.

The process of loading of a rubber membrane with spherical indentor allowing to
analyze its stress-strain state in the conditions close to the operational is considered.

Calculation methods of setting centrifuges for different precipitation regime is
presented.

In this paper we consider the mathematical model of the indoor environment, taking
into account the transfer of heat, moisture and POLLUTANT. This model can be used
to control the climate in the building.

The simulation of non-stationary process carbon dioxide absorption based on a
simplified nonlinear two-mode model showed the following. The time of transition of the
process to the convective mode exceed the time of process instability more than 100 times
and its value is the same order as the known experimental data for wide range of initial
pertrurbations of concentration. The mass of absorbed substance versus the square root
of time weakly depends on the initial conditions and in qualitative agreement with known
experimental data.

The problem of the rating assessment of financial and economic state of enterprises
(suppliers) from the standpoint of multicriteria choice was reviewed. The main challenges were identified that we face when building integral ratings: the problem of
choice of the principle of compromise and the availability to him of the principle of optimality;
the problem of priorities of criteria; the problem of normalization criteria. One of
the most common was analyzed in the rating principles of the compromise – the principle
of equitable assignment that solves the problem of multicriteria radical way – due to the
convolution of the set of criteria into a single integral criterion. For hierarchical synthesis
of integral indicator of rating estimation procedure is proposed based on the method
of analysis of hierarchies and the number of auxiliary computational procedures, allowing
you to perform point and interval estimation of indicators of financial and economic
state of enterprises.

When analyzing the motion of the particles in the first steps of the dust collectorclassifier
is asked to take into account the resistance force proportional to the velocity of
the particles. For this case, the mathematical solution to determine the speed and location
coordinates of the particles over time was given.

A mathematical model of periodical grinding of elastic materials in mills with
blade elements is considered.

On the basis of method of movements of age made a projection of the number and
structure of the population of Russia to 2025 year. Based on the forecast, it is calculated
the retirement age of citizen of Russia subject to constancy theloadratioonworkingofpopulation
of Russia.

Analyzing the available literature and summarizing experience of student's mathematical
Olympiads, teachers at Ryazan state Radiotechnical University published methodical
manual for teachers and students interested in non-standard tasks and methods
of solving them, which in this article is presented to the interested readers.

On the example of solving the olympiad tasks the specialties and possibilities of
L'Hospital’s rule are considered.

The article discusses the advantages, features and possibilities of modern tools of
statistical data processing - computing environment and programming language open
source R - for use in the preparation of bachelors.

Depending on the mobility of three orthonormal base vectors for a Cartesian
coordinate system the definition of the absolute and local derivatives of an arbitrary vector
are analyzed.

The notions of "one-sided derivative" and "one-sided limit of derivative" and
their denotations in standard courses of mathematical analysis are analyzed.

On the example of the use of graphic differentiation methods and integration in
the discipline "Processes and devices of chemical technologies" we discuss some of the
problems of the competence approach to the teaching of mathematics at technical University,
in particular, differences in the conceptual and instrumental apparatus of mathematics
in mathematics courses and in applied disciplines. Row of reasons of origin of
these problems is marked, the ways of their removal are offered.

The analysis of the organization of professional training in the field of information
technology is given; the necessity of adjusting the teaching of professional disciplines; the
technique of training on programming, providing actualization of mathematical knowledge is
proved.

The experience of teaching the first-year students of chemical specialties using a
rating system of knowledge control is considered. We developed a method of calculating
the final rating of the student.

The history of the interaction of mathematics and economics is more than a thousand
years. There are mathematicians, who have made a significant contribution to the
economy even among the Nobel Prize winners. However, the economy as a science has a
number of features, so not non-standard solutions in the economy are associated with all
the mathematical research. The article gives examples of innovative solutions in order to
draw attention to the unlimited possibilities of finding new solutions in the economy.

The paper examines a problem of developing a unified ontological model for storage
and analysis of experimental data that is invariant to the subject area of the experiment
and build SQL databases on that basis.

The paper examines the problem of developing a database structure for organizing
automated testing of complex software during its development..

The technique of creating automated machining dimensional schemes for the calculation
of the size of the technological details on the 3D model in the environment of Inventor.
At the same time construction of the graph structure dimensional tours of the
process is performed automatically. Formed file boundaries and edges are transferred to
the program and calculate the size of the workpiece machining. Illustrations are given in
the program design GraKON 3D.

The article describes the technique of creation of automatically formed reports
for LODSMAN:PLM system. The structure of tables of system analyses, interrelations
with use of the charts Microsoft SQLServer 2008 R2 are being looked for. Creation of
graphic representation (template) of the report in the Fast Report editor is considered.
The interrelation between data from base and a final template is created.

The application of programming order with the developed interface for work with
databases on #++ in Visual Studio 2013 is considered.

The influence of the silanes on the modification structure of natural and isoprene
rubber during the processing of rolling through rolles in the air. A change modification
in the viscosity depending on the duration of rolling and nature rubber takes place.

Artificial aqueous dispersions were obtained from a butadiene rubber. Polymeric
films prepared based dispersions have good elasticity and adhesion to natural leather or
fabric base.

The properties of polyfunctional oligobutadienes are investigated. The possibility
of obtaining cataphoresis and metal-polymer systems on their basis is shown.

The process of film polyfunctional cationic oligobutadienes microstructure of different
organic-film-forming systems in the presence of acid-type hardeners has been studies.
The method of computer modeling points to the impact of cross-linking agents in the
type of cross-linking of the polymer chains and the flexibility of determining the physical
and performance properties of the materials is being pointed out. A scientific approach
to the creation of special purpose compositions with an improved combination of properties
is proposed.

Biodegradability and environmental safety of the composite material based on
diene-acrylic copolymers and starch with $eriodaphniaaffinis was investigated. It is
shown that the composite material is environmentally friendly product.

The problem of pollution of natural waste waters of produced in the former Yaroslavl
particulate plant and method of their processing is considered.

A comparative estimation of influence of the electric and magnetic parts of electromagnetic
fields on the person is carried out by the method of variability of an cardio
rhythm. It is shown, that character of changes of the adaptable systems state at action of
these factors is identical.

The paper examines the dynamics of population intensity of several rotifer species
under different values of specific and environmental parameters.
